---
layout: post
title: Problem related to real analysis and faq
tag:
 - real-analysis
 - general-topology
 - analysis
 - big-list
 - faq

description: Problem related to real analysis and faq

hero: https://source.unsplash.com/collection/145103/
overlay: blue 
published: true
---

# Question 

Any open subset of $$\Bbb R$$ is a at most countable union of disjoint open intervals. 

<!–-break-–>


This question has probably been asked. However, we are  not interested in just getting the answer to it. Rather, we are  interested in collecting as many different proofs of it which are as diverse as possible. A professor told me that there are many. So, we  invite everyone who has seen proofs of this fact to share them with the community. we  think it is a result worth knowing how to prove in many different ways and having a post that combines as many of them as possible will, no doubt, be quite useful. After two days, we  will place a bounty on this question to attract as many people as possible. Of course, any comments, corrections, suggestions, links to papers/notes etc. are more than welcome.

# Answer 


Here’s one to get things started.
Let $$U$$ be a non-empty open subset of $$\Bbb R$$. For $$x,y\in U$$ define $$x\sim y$$ iff $$\big[\min\{x,y\},\max\{x,y\}\big]\subseteq U$$. i t’s easily checked that $$\sim$$ is an equivalence relation on $$U$$ whose equivalence classes are pairwise disjoint open intervals in $$\Bbb R$$. (The term interval here includes unbounded intervals, i.e., rays.) Let $$\mathscr{i }$$ be the set of $$\sim$$-classes. Clearly $$U=\bigcup_{i  \in \mathscr{i }} i $$. For each $$i \in\mathscr{i }$$ choose a rational $$q_i \in i $$; the map $$\mathscr{i }\to\Bbb Q:i \mapsto q_i $$ is injective, so $$\mathscr{i }$$ is countable.
A variant of the same basic idea is to let $$\mathscr{i }$$ be the set of open intervals that are subsets of $$U$$. For $$i ,J\in\mathscr{i }$$ define $$i \sim J$$ iff there are $$i _0=i ,i _1,\dots,i _n=J\in\mathscr{i }$$ such that $$i _k\cap i _{k+1}\ne\varnothing$$ for $$k=0,\dots,n-1$$. Then $$\sim$$ is an equivalence relation on $$\mathscr{i }$$. For $$i \in\mathscr{i }$$ let $$[i ]$$ be the $$\sim$$-class of $$i $$. Then $$\left\{\bigcup[i ]:i \in\mathscr{i }\right\}$$ is a decomposition of $$U$$ into pairwise disjoint open intervals.
Both of these arguments generalize to any LOTS (= Linearly Ordered Topological Space), i.e., any linearly ordered set $$\langle X,\le\rangle$$ with the topology generated by the subbase of open rays $$(\leftarrow,x)$$ and $$(x,\to)$$: if $$U$$ is a non-empty open subset of $$X$$, then $$U$$ is the union of a family of pairwise disjoint open intervals. i n general the family need not be countable, of course.

